we've talked about it for months
now
we're here
2016 political director Lisa
Desjardins
explains how the presidential
race as
quickly hit another gear just
try and
take it all in the many
candidates are
scrambling as months of buildup
are over
and the actual 2016 is here it
means are
mounting frenzy of rallies and
big-time
surrogates but today's biggest
movers
came over the airwaves
politicians can
bring something else a
provocative new
donald Trump addressing security
that's
why is calling for a temporary
shutdown
of Muslims in the United States
until we
can figure out what's going on
it struck first TV ad of the
campaign
and is raising the intensity of
the race
at the same time his rivals are
revving
up their opposition to him in
new
hampshire today New Jersey
Governor
Chris Christie called Trump
security
promised an empty one these are
among
the most dangerous a perilous
times in
our country's recent history
showtime is over everybody we
are not
elected an entertainer and chief
meanwhile on the democratic side
something new from the clinton
campaign
the first solo appearances from
former
President Bill Clinton business
cycle he
stuck mostly to his wife's
biography I
do not believe in my life to
anybody has
run through this and a moment of
great
importance who was better
qualified by
knowledge experience and
temperament to
do what needs to be done now
he's dead
positive and ignored recent
attacks from
donald Trump about his
infidelity the
candidate herself Hillary
Clinton in
iowa did attacked Romney and
Republicans
on their rhetoric of the reasons
that I
have reacted so negatively to
what I
hear coming from the other side
is
because not only are what they
are
saying about Muslims wrong and
shameful
it's dangerous for main rival
vermont
senator Bernie Sanders
was in new hampshire Sanders
message
that his grassroots campaign has
a real
shot at wresting the nomination
away
from clinton and we can win in
the shop
we have a real path toward
victory and
that's just a taste of the
blades across
the only state republican
senator Ted
Cruz in iowa is enough to make
our
country and Florida Senator
Marco Rubio
in new hampshire as for rival
republican
ben Carson his move was online
Carson
released a new tax plan calling
for a
flat tax of 14.9% on most
Americans but
the numbers that may matter most
on the
trail our dates the Iowa
caucuses are
February 1st and the new
hampshire
primary eight days later for the
PBS
Newshour I'm Lisa Desjardins now
that is
2016 it's the perfect time for
politics
Monday with Tamara Keith and Amy
Walter
both are in New Hampshire and I
spoke
with him a short time ago
Tamara Keith of NPR and Amy
Walter of
the cook Political Report 2016
is
finally here you're both in new
hampshire Tamara let me start
with you
you were you were with bill
clinton when
he spoke today earlier in new
hampshire
it was thought he might respond
to some
of what Donald Trump has been
talking
about lately but he didn't he
certainly
did not he was there to be the
the
supportive spouse mostly eat he
started
out talking about news articles
that
he's read in may be made veiled
references to some of Donald
Trump's
language on on Muslims but he
didn't go
there on some of the other
things donald
Trump has been going going after
him on
and then he really saying the
praises of
his wife and told a series of
anecdotes
about her going back to when
they first
met in in law school and many of
the
people in the audience there
talk to
afterwards said that they
learned new
things about hillary clinton so
he was
he was doing the the proud
husband thing
and and not really hitting hard
against
other candidates so Amy the the
hillary
clinton campaigned use him
purely as an
asset I think so and i think im
listen
he brings right now in a
democratic
primary a very good track record
Democratic voters like him they
responded him and I think we'll
see him
on the trail much more in the
coming in
the coming months again you
can't have
hillary Clinton everywhere she
had
somebody who knows what it's
like to run
a presidential campaign going
out into
all of these early primary state
and
they think it's just such a
striking
contrast between what hillary
clinton
can do with her husband former
president
and what jim bush can't do with
his
brother former president he
bringing him
on the road there's been a lot
of talk
about that early on but we
haven't seen
it quite yet and the last name
of course
of bush much more problematic
for gym in
a republican primary the clinton
named
still gold in a democratic
primary of
course the reason bill clinton
is there
tamara is is the fact that
Bernie
Sanders happens to be running a
little
bit ahead in the
in the polls how worried are
they about
Bernie Sanders how how strong a
race is
he putting up there he is you
say is
leading in the polls here has a
strong
organization here both in New
Hampshire
and also in iowa he's he's
working hard
in Iowa to build his
organization there
because the clintons can sort of
right
off New Hampshire and and they
keep
putting out these lines like
well you
know he is from a neighboring
state and
and people don't tend to lose
then their
neighboring state in new
hampshire so
there they are definitely
setting
expectations though it's unclear
whether
they actually think that that he
could
win in new hampshire whether
they're
just trying to lower lower the
bar but
Amy the other thing we're
watching today
as we mentioned as Donald Trump
out with
his first television ad words
fear is is
being associated with it the
trunk
campaign has waited until now to
put
this out what's the strategy
here to do
is have a hard time
understanding the
strategy of the Trump campaigned
so I
don't know if its strategy as
much as
the fact that he is doubling
down on
what has gotten him so far
thus far which is this idea that
he is
the strongest and the toughest
and most
resolute in the field and I
think the
more that we hear about trouble
in the
mideast more now that we're
hearing
about problems coming from all
sectors
when it relates to Isis etcetera
this
just makes donald Trump look
even better
in the eyes of many Republican
primary
voters for frustration
frustrated
anxious ready to turn the page
and this
just reminds them of what they
liked and
him in the first place of course
it also
reminds a lot of moderate voters
independent leaning voters about
what
they don't like about Donald
Trump and I
think this is always going to be
the
trouble for trent is what works
very
well in a republican primary
cuts
against him among general
electric among
the general electorate and we
need is
that I think the understanding
of a lot
of people that when you talk
about 10
terrorism democrats feel that
that's not
the strong their strongest issue
that
Republicans are just naturally
going to
be in a better place on that
though
Hillary Clinton would would say
that she
is strong on those issues as a
former
secretary of state I think
that's the
case but she would certainly
make to me
what was striking with the
donald Trump
ad is the imagery of
undocumented
immigrants presumably grainy
footage
running across the border I
think that's
what it's supposed to be it
takes me
back to the nineteen nineties in
california and governor pete
wilson's
re-election campaign had an ad
with
similar footage of people
flooding over
the borders and that added and
some
other things that he ran on in
that
campaign ultimately hurt the
republican
party in california in a way
that some
Republicans are concerned could
hurt the
national party with with this
combat in
the language about immigrants
because
the demographics are changing in
this
country and an appealing to
Latino
voters and Asian voters is going
to be
critical
many believe for the future of
the
Republican Party in this country
Amy the other candidate i want
to ask
you about as chris Christie
you're going
to be seeing him and an event
later
today he has three events in New
Hampshire today what's going on
with
chris Christie in the granite
state it's
going to be very interesting to
see what
chris Christie does and whether
he's
able to coalesce what is at this
point
been a very fractured primary up
here in
new hampshire donald Trump
leading the
pack with about 25 percent of
the vote
and then the rest of it is
really
splintered about and chris
Christie
wants to be the establishment
candidate
right now he's competing for
that lane
for that antitrust blame with
Jeb Bush
Marco Rubio john Kasich
speech today right here at st.
Anselm's
College where he made the case
that you
know what I understand you're
angry
America I get it I'm with you on
that
but you need somebody who's
actually
been tested I he says have been
tested
at the executive level the
others
haven't anybody can do
showmanship and
take somebody else to have real
executive experience
I think we're going to hear a
lot more
about that in the days and weeks
to come
the pace is quick and it is 2062
looking
at those days on the calendar
you're
both in new hampshire we thank
you Amy
Walter Taylor murky